wrtranslate.rb(1) -- translate one or more terms to another language
====================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`wrtranslate.rb` <term><br>
`wrtranslate.rb` `--delimiter delimiter` `-d`|`--dictionary dictionary` `--format format` `-j`|`--joiner joiner` `-k`|`--api-key api-key` <term><br>
`wrtranslate.rb` `-s`|`--switch-order` <term>

## DESCRIPTION

**wrtranslate.rb** is a simple command-line tool for accessing
wordreference.com dictionaries and translating a single word
or an entire list of terms in a format that can easily be imported
into many flash card programs.

My default, `wrtranslate.rb` uses the Spanish to English
dictionary (esen) and returns all possible translations
for the searched for term.

By default, `wrtranslate.rb` will use your wordreference.com
api key in `~/.wrtranslate.rc`, however, you can override either
the api key or the dictionary used (or both) via the `-k` and 
`-d` flags, respectively.

## FILES

`~/.wrtranslate.rc` is used for authentication if `-k` is omitted.

## OPTIONS

	* `--delimiter DELIMITER`:
		Used to specify delimiter between term and translation when
		generating CSV file
	* `-d DICTIONARY`, `--dictionary DICTIONARY`:
		Dictionary to use for translation. Dictionaries are described by two
		two-letter abbreviations for the language the term is currently in
		followed by the two-letter abbreviation the term should be translated
		to. Currently WordReference.com only supports translationsto and from
		English. Here is a listing of the available languages and their
		two-letter abbreviations:
		
		Language    Abbreviation
		Arabic      ar
		Chinese     zh
		Czech       cz
		English     en
		French      fr
		Greek       gr
		Italian     it
		Japanese    ja
		Korean      ko
		Polish      pl
		Portuguese  pt
		Romanian    ro
		Spanish     es
		Turkish     tr
	* `--format FORMAT`:
		Specify <pretty> or <csv>. Defaults to pretty if outputting
		to the standard out, csv otherwise.
	* `-j`, `--joiner JOINER`:
		Return up to n number of translations for term
	* `-k`, `--api-key KEY`:
		wordreference.com api key
	* `-s`, `--switch`:
		Switch order in which term and translation are displayed. Displays
		original term before the translation by default.		
		
## EXAMPLES

Translate the term "vaca" from Spanish to English:
	
	$ wrtranslate.rb vaca

Translate the term "cow" from English to French:
	
	$ wrtranslate.rb -d enfr cow

Display the translation "vaca" before it is displayed:

	$ wrtranslate.rb -s vaca

Use "|" between translation options instead of the default ", ":

	$ wrtranslate.rb -j"|" vaca